At that Hugh, having finished his work in connection with the care of
his tame pets, turned around and faced his chum.

"On my part, Thad," he was saying, quietly but sincerely, "I'm
getting to be hopeful of Nick.  I honestly believe that fellow has
seen a great light.  I think he's made up his mind to turn over a new
leaf and redeem his rotten past.  And I want to say here and now it's
up to every boy in Scranton High to treat him decently while he's
still fighting his old impulses of evil.  I know I shall let him feel
I believe in him, until he does something to forfeit my esteem."

"That's just like you, Hugh; and I guess the rest of us ought to be
ashamed to throw any stumbling block in the way of a chap who is
trying to get out of his old rut.  But it passes my comprehension how
he can change, and play fair and square, when all his life he's been
so tricky and low-down mean."

"As for that, lots of men who were once down in the gutter have
reformed, and proved giants in helping others to get up to
respectability again.  Take that Jean Valjean we were talking about
the other day, who changed right-about-face, and became just as fine
a man as he was bad before.  You don't suppose it all came in a
flash, do you?"

"Why, no, of course not, Hugh.  He was the lowest sort of a beast, as
pictured by Hugo, with the vilest ideas concerning human nature.
After he had that revelation, and saw the good priest actually tell a
lie in order to save him, he woke up, and, as you said, began
thinking for himself.  Then the change came gradually, and he
determined to work to help those who were down and out like himself."

"All right," said Hugh.  "This case of Nick Lang is like this, in a
small way.  But, Thad, do you feel like taking a walk this fine crisp
winter morning?"

"Just for the exercise, or have you any scheme in your mind, Hugh?"

"Both, I might say.  The mile walk will do us good, and then we may
be able to satisfy ourselves about a few things.  It is just half a
mile out to the cross-roads, and Deacon Winslow's house and smithy,
you know."

Thad looked interested at once.

"So, that's the way the wind blows, is it?" he remarked.  "You want
to interview the deacon, too, as well as Chief Wambold?"

"But not from the same motive, Thad.  On the contrary, while he went
out to try and find a reason for believing Nick guilty, in spite of
his alibi, I mean only to ask a few questions that will clear up a
little point that is a bit muddled."

"Perhaps I could guess what that is," said Thad quickly.  "You're
puzzled to understand why Nick should have been out there on just
last night of all times, when any other would have done just as well.
How about that, Hugh?"

"That's one of the things I'd like to have cleared up," Hugh
admitted.  "Between us, Thad, I've got a pretty good notion Nick knew
about this contemplated raid on Kramer's store.  Perhaps in times
past they may even have plotted such a thing, so as to get all the
cigarettes and candy they wanted for once.  I even believe he was
refusing Leon and Tip Slavin, who were urging him to join in with
them, when I saw him shake his head and skate away yesterday."

"Go on, Hugh, you've got me interested again; sure you have."

"While Nick wouldn't think of betraying his former associates, from
whose company he had broken away, at the same time he was smart
enough to see he would be placed under suspicion.  And he must have
arranged this alibi so as to prove his positive innocence.  If that
turns out so, it shows Nick to be a wise one."

Shortly afterwards the pair were trudging along the road outside the
corporation limits of the town of Scranton.  It was some time before
the customary church hour, and they were almost certain to find the
old deacon at home, Hugh believed.

On the way they met a car coming along the road.  In it was Chief
Wambold.  Scranton had advanced far enough toward the dignity of
cityhood to have an auto for the police force, since the Chief often
had to go to neighboring towns on matters of business, taking a
prisoner, or getting one to fetch back.

He nodded to the boys as he shot past.

"Doesn't look very amiable, does he?" muttered Thad.  "So I rather
guess he didn't get much satisfaction from the old deacon.  But he's
awful stubborn, is our efficient head of police; and if he can find
any way to put that business on Nick's shoulders he will, take my
word for it."

Hugh only smiled as though he was not worrying about anything Chief
Wambold could accomplish.  He had known the other to make several
"bone-plays" since coming to Scranton, and hence Hugh did not have a
very high opinion of the official's merits, though not doubting his
honesty of purpose at all.

After a short time they arrived at the smithy.  Deacon Winslow lived
close to his shop.  He was a big man, with the proverbial muscles of
the blacksmith; and for many years he had been looked upon as a
pillar in the church he attended.

Besides this he was reckoned a good man, who could always be counted
on to go out of his way to do a favor for anybody.  The poor of
Scranton loved him better than they did anyone they knew.  His acts
were often "hidden under a bushel," since he did not go around, as
Thad once said, "blowing his own horn, and advertising his goodness
as one would soft soap."

Strange as it might seem, Deacon Winslow had taken quite a fancy to
Nick Lang, and possibly he was the only respectable man in all
Scranton who did.  Perhaps he admired Nick's muscular build, and
believed he would make a fine smith, if the husky boy only took a
liking to the vocation of hammer and forge and anvil.

Then again it was likely that the deacon, who was a shrewd old fellow
as well as good-natured and honest, saw deeper into that bad boy's
soul than ordinary people, judging from surface indications.  Hugh
himself was inclined to believe this might be the case.

Be that as it may, Nick had been known to go out there to the Winslow
shop occasionally after supper, and work alongside the old man for
hours at a time.  Folks considered it only another odd fad on the
part of the deacon.  They prophesied that he would sooner or later he
sorry for having anything to do with such a good-for-nothing
scapegrace as Nick Lang, who would not hesitate to play some nasty
practical joke on his benefactor when the notion seized him and he
had grown tired of bothering with blacksmithing.

The deacon himself came to the door.  He knew both lads, and asked
them to step in and sit with him before his cheery fire, as he had
half an hour on his hands before starting to church.

Hugh plunged into the matter without waste of time.  He told Deacon
Winslow how he had been reading that wonderful story of Jean Valjean;
and then what a strange freak of fate allowed him to play the same
part that the good priest had done.

Step by step he carried it along, and Deacon Winslow appeared to be
deeply interested, if one could judge from the way he rubbed his
hands together, and nodded his head approvingly when he learned of
the motives that had influenced Hugh to act as he did.

Even what had occurred on the ice on the preceding afternoon was
narrated, for, as Hugh explained, he believed it had a great deal to
do with the startling event that had stunned Scranton that same
Sunday morning.

When he had finally ended with a profession of his belief in Nick's
innocence the old man once more nodded his head.  His wise eyes shone
with a rare delight as he gazed at Hugh.  The boy could not help
thinking that the good priest in the story must have been a whole lot
like old Deacon Winslow; who could believe wrong of no one, boy or
man, but was always finding some excuse for forgiving, even those who
deceived him in business transactions.

"You have done well, my lad," said the old man warmly, patting Hugh
on the arm affectionately.  "And rest assured Nick is entirely
innocent of this crime.  I have become deeply interested in that boy.
He has had a bad name, it is true; but somehow I seemed to feel that
there were elements of great good in him, if only he could be brought
to book, and made to change his ways of life.  He must have a new
viewpoint of human nature, to start with.  I thought I might arouse
him through talking, and fatherly advice, but so far I could not see
success following my labors.  But you have hit upon an ingenious
device, my boy, that promises wonderful results.  We may yet make a
second Jean Valjean of the despised Nick Lang; and that would be an
achievement worthy of anyone."

Hugh felt more than repaid for all he had done when he heard the old
deacon say this with such warmth.

"There was one thing I wanted to learn, sir, if you don't mind
telling me," he went on to say.  "It concerns his engagement to come
out here and help you last night.  Were you expecting him?  Was
Saturday night the one he generally took to come and help you get rid
of some of your extra work that couldn't be done in the daytime, for
all the horse-shoeing you have on your hands?"

The deacon smiled, and Hugh really had his answer before the old man
even opened his lips.  All the same he was pleased to hear him say:

"Up to now it has always been on Monday night Nick came out.  That
was more convenient for me, as a rule, and he accommodated himself to
my wishes.   But yesterday afternoon he dropped in to see me here,
with his skates dangling across his shoulder, as if he had been
skating.  He said he would like very much to come for that once on
Saturday night, instead of Monday; and that he had a good reason for
making the change, which meant a whole lot to him."

"I see," remarked Hugh; "and it was clever of Nick.  You agreed, of
course, sir, seeing that he was here?"

"It made no particular difference to me," added the blacksmith, "and
I was glad to know the lad cared enough about the work to want to
make the change.  So I told him to be along as usual about seven, as
I had a raft of work on hand that would keep us until well on after
eleven.  As a fact, it was fifteen minutes after that hour when Nick
started for home."

"You remember that positively then, sir,--the hour, I mean?" asked
Hugh.

"Oh!  I could swear to it," came the reply.  "In the first place I
heard the town clock strike eleven, and counted the strokes myself,
remarking that we must shut up shop soon as it was getting close to
Sunday morning.  Then as he was quitting Nick asked me again just
what time it was, and I consulted my reliable watch.  I can see now
that possibly Nick had an object in impressing the time on my mind,
so I could say positively he was there at eleven, and after.  I don't
like the idea of his having known about the intended robbery, and
keeping silent, but suppose he considered himself in honor bound to
his former chums."

So their interview with Deacon Winslow proved a very enjoyable one
after all.  Hugh felt he should like to know the big amiable
blacksmith better, for he had been drawn to him very much indeed.

"And," he told Thad, as they trudged back along the road to town,
"the way things seem to be working, I'm more than ever encouraged to
keep on with my experiment."
